Methods computed in watchers.
Methods are bound to the view instance.
They're incredibly useful.
They are functions that you'd
like to access in directives,
but I say functions that you'd like to
access in directives because that's
a pretty interesting part of it.
But they're functions that
you can access in any part.
You can access them in lifecycle
hooks that we will go over later.
You can access them in other methods or
even in computed properties.
So let's go over methods.
They're really aptly named because
when you look at the view instance and
the options API,
that data is really an object.
So far what we've been working with
in data is just one big object.
And methods are a function that hangs
off of the view instance object.
So they're very aptly named in this case.
So if we look at something like this demo,
we have these pixels across.
You can see I'm tracking
the pixels across and
also doing some updating
of these hue values.
And then I have a very simple
incrementer and decrementer.
So let's open this in CodePen.
So what we have going on here
is we're tracking two things.
I'm just showing you two
different things at the same time.
We've got this counter equals zero, and
we're able to increment the counter and
decrement the counter.
Now, this is not that much logic,
we could have written this inside
of that at click event, but
I wanna show you this is how we're
typically gonna work with things, right.
If we call a @click, we're usually
gonna make a corresponding method.
And what I mean by that is in
this button @click increment,
we establish a relationship
with an increment here.
And we're going to, every time we
click this button we are going to
do whatever is in increment.
And it won't be evaluated until,
it won't actually be run until that point.
And then here we do the same
thing with decrement.
So you could call a method and
do all sorts of things,
it opens up a huge world for us.
You might also notice that in
order to access this counter here,
we're saying this.counter++ or
this.counter--.
And when we say this inside of a method,
we're always referring to data.
I don't know about you, but
I'm really excited about always
knowing what this is referring to.
I don't know if you know that joke that
somebody tweeted on Twitter that's like,
I get really frustrated with
JavaScript and I wanna scream,
this is bullshit, but
I keep forgetting what this refers to.
[LAUGH] In this case,
we always know what this refers to,
it's always referring to this counter or
this.x.
So for this coordinate, I mentioned
this really, really briefly before, but
let's talk about this for just a second.
I have this @mouse move where
I'm tracking your mouse
anytime you're moving across here.
I say x coordinate I wanna
capture the event here, but
I don't actually have to pass it
because you will kind of assume
that you probably want
access to that event.
So that will be the first parameter
that you have access to here.
So if I console logged E I would get
a lot of information about that event.
In this case,
I'm using e.clientx which means
that I'm tracking where it
is lying across the page.
That event is like, where is my mouse in
terms of the pixels across on this page.
And I mapping that to this dot x,
I'm gonna say this dot x
is equal to e.clientx.
Now we talked about this style bindings
before when we made that tron thing,
we've got the background color and
I'm passing in this is a template literal,
and I'm passing that x into the h.
This is a side note, in JavaScript
if you wanna make generative colors,
let's say you wanna do some
creative coding or something.
Hue values are really good for
this generative color thing.
Whereas with hex values or RGB,
you eventually have something that fails
on either side of negative or positive.
Hue is a big circle, so you can keep
going around and around in the circle.
So I can say the number is 7,352, and
that's still a hue because it's a big
circle so it will never ever fail.
So here I'm using this to
create different values
as I go across the screen with this h.
So I'm the binding that style.
Remember, this is
equivalent the bid.style.
But because I don't wanna write the bid,
the bid, the bid,
I'm binding it with this shortcut.
So this is a shortcut,
and this is a shortcut.
This is a shortcut to the on mouse move,
that's equivalent,
but the shortcuts I'm using are at for
events and just this colon for the bind.
Cool.
So since that wasn't
the most typical use case,
[LAUGH] maybe we wanna do
something like a comment form.
This is a little bit more app-like, right.
And we will build off of this
example through the whole course.
So we'll, don't worry, we'll make it
a little bit more refined and do a little
bit more things with it and make it
a little bit better and improve on it.
But for now,
I'm gonna be like one of those people
you post something on Facebook or
Twitter or something and
I'm one of those random people who
says something that you're like what.
So [LAUGH] they're talking about
the sea and I'm gonna say I like tacos.
And as you can see,
that comment is added to this.
And as you could probably guess, it's an
array that I'm pushing this string on to.
So let's take a look at the code.
So if I open up my CodePen, what I start
off with in our app is I'm holding
a comment array, and
that's what's being outputted here.
So those are the comments.
I'm also holding a string that's for
new comment, that's just a placeholder so
that I can type something here and
it will evaluate,
that I can actually capture that input.
If we look over in our HTML, we have,
as you might expect, Li v-for comment
in comments with a key of comment.
And I'm outputting that comment here.
And in input,
I have the v model that establishes
a relationship with new comment.
I'm also saying at key
up.enter add comment.
So what I'm saying here is as
soon as I hit an Enter key,
then do a thing in methods
called add comment.
So I'm writing here and
as soon as soon as I hit that Enter key,
it's going to go find something
in methods called add comment.
Our add comment is saying
this.comments.push this.new comment.
And as soon as I'm done pushing that
onto the array, I wanna empty it out,
I wanna make sure that it doesn't
stay otherwise it would just stay
[SOUND] whatever this is.
And what I wanna make sure of is
that it empties out that input so
that I can add more things.
So if we looked at this in View Dev Tools,
we've got all of the elements,
which is what it evaluates to,
the ULLi and the input.
But we also have our View tab where
we can go into the route, and
we have a comments array that
has all of the comments.
As I type new comment,
I say, I like tacos.
And as soon as I hit that Enter
key it gets added here, and
this becomes an empty string.
Any questions about that before I move on?
Okay, great.
Here, as mentioned,
we have this new comment,
which is an empty string, comments array.
We're adding the comment,
and this is in method.
So I mentioned that this is
part of the view instance,
it's this big object we've got.
And we've got this data which
is a function that returns
what we're holding as state.
And the methods are anything
that we would like to,
any kind of function that
we would like to call.
So we say add comment here.
And the HTML is an Li v4
as well as as this input.
This is actually not that much
code to make all of that work,
it's pretty declarative.
What we're doing is
we're holding the state,
we're changing the state in some way,
and we're outputting it to the page.
And if you jumped into this,
you'd probably be able to understand
what's going on pretty quickly.
This placeholder is just
regular HTML that's gonna
have an add a comment placeholder for
that input.